A house cat's genome is 95.6 percent tiger, and they share many behaviors with their jungle ancestors, says Layla Morgan Wilde, a cat behavior expert and the founder of Cat Wisdom 101. These behaviors include scent marking by scratching, prey play, prey stalking, pouncing, chinning, and urine marking.
Cats are believed to be the only mammals who don't taste sweetness.
Cats are nearsighted, but their peripheral vision and night vision are much better than that of humans.
Cats are supposed to have 18 toes (five toes on each front paw; four toes on each back paw).
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
Cats' claws all curve downward, which means that they can't climb down trees head-first. Instead, they have to back down the trunk.
Cats' collarbones don't connect to their other bones, as these bones are buried in their shoulder muscles.
Cats have 230 bones, while humans only have 206.
Cats have an extra organ that allows them to taste scents on the air, which is why your cat stares at you with her mouth open from time to time.
Cats have whiskers on the backs of their front legs, as well.
Cats have nearly twice the amount of neurons in their cerebral cortex as dogs.
A cat's average lifespan increased by a year over the span of time between 2002 and 2012, according to a study by Banfield Pet Hospital.
According to The Huffington Post, cats typically sleep for 12 to 16 hours a day.
Cats are crepuscular, which means that they're most active at dawn and dusk.
Cats are fastidious creatures about their "bathroom." If you have more than one cat, you should have one litter box for each.
Cats can spend up to a third of their waking hours grooming.
Cats live longer when they stay indoors.
Cats' purring may be a self-soothing behavior, since they make this noise when they're ill or distressed, as well as when they're happy.
Cats will refuse an unpalatable food to the point of starvation.
Despite popular belief, many cats are actually lactose intolerant.
Female cats have the ability to get pregnant when they are only 4 months old!
Grapes and raisins, as well as onions, garlic, and chives, are all extremely harmful foods for cats. Grapes and raisins can cause kidney failure -- although the reasoning behind that isn't clear. Meanwhile, onions, garlic, and chives wreak havoc on your cat's gastrointestinal system and can cause anemia.
If you keep your cat active during the day, he will sleep better at night. If you're not free-feeding your cat, you can also help her get a good night's sleep by providing her with a substantial evening meal.
It's believed that catnip produces an effect similar to LSD or marijuana in cats. The effects of nepetalactone -- the chemical in catnip that can makes cats crazy -- wears off within 15 minutes, and won't surface again for a few hours, even if your cat remains in sniffing distance.
Kittens can be spayed or neutered when they are only eight weeks old. If possible, these procedures should be performed in the first 5 months of your cat's life.
Male cats who have been fixed need fewer calories to maintain their weight.
Spaying and neutering can extend a cat's life. The Banfield Pet Hospital study found that neutered males live an average of 62 percent longer than unneutered cats and spayed females live an average of 39 percent longer than unspayed cats.
Your cat's grooming process stimulates blood flow to his skin, regulates his body temperature and helps him relax.
Cats have the largest eyes relative to their head size of any mammal.
Cats make very little noise when they walk around. The thick, soft pads on their paws allow them to sneak up on their prey -- or you!
Cats' rough tongues can lick a bone clean of any shred of meat.
Cats use their long tails to balance themselves when they're jumping or walking along narrow ledges.
Cats use their whiskers to "feel" the world around them in an effort to determine which small spaces they can fit into. A cat's whiskers are generally about the same width as its body. (This is why you should never, EVER cut their whiskers.)
Cats walk like camels and giraffes: They move both of their right feet first, then move both of their left feet. No other animals walk this way.
Male cats are more likely to be left-pawed, while female cats are more likely to be right-pawed.
Though cats can notice the fast movements of their prey, it often seems to them that slow-moving objects are actually stagnant.
Some cats are ambidextrous, but 40 percent are either left- or right-pawed.
Some cats can swim.
There are cats who have more than 18 toes.
Cats have flexible bodies and teeth adapted for hunting small animals such as mice and rats.

A group of cats is called a clowder, a male cat is called a tom, a female cat is called a molly or queen while young cats are called kittens.

Domestic cats usually weigh around 4 kilograms (8 lb 13 oz) to 5 kilograms (11 lb 0 oz).


The heaviest domestic cat on record is 21.297 kilograms (46 lb 15.2 oz).


Cats can be lethal hunters and very sneaky, when they walk their back paws step almost exactly in the same place as the front paws did beforehand, this keeps noise to a minimum and limits visible tracks.

Cats have powerful night vision, allowing them to see at light levels six times lower than what a human needs in order to see.

Cats also have excellent hearing and a powerful sense of smell.

Older cats can at times act aggressively towards kittens.

Domestic cats love to play, this is especially true with kittens who love to chase toys and play fight. Play fighting among kittens may be a way for them to practice and learn skills for hunting and fighting.

On average cats live for around 12 to 15 years.
Cats spend a large amount of time licking their coats to keep them clean.
Feral cats are often seen as pests and threats to native animals.
Cats are one of, if not the most, popular pet in the world.

There are over 500 million domestic cats in the world.

Cats and humans have been associated for nearly 10000 years.

Cats conserve energy by sleeping for an average of 13 to 14 hours a day.

